[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

1. Generational drama (not to care)
2. Financial
3. Body pain 
4. Baby struggle, finance 
5. Given the best as one only one na 
6. Second child have the soem advantages like in first child no car,lived in rent house  after some year the parents development in financial is strong,some Blunder mistakes reduce as learn from first child
7. Grandfather are tired 
8. Distract to child not to mom
9. How the child postion, how the eyes
10. Mom not to enjoy
11. Mother career Totally stopped
12. Not to share love,care,kindly to other child 
13. Not to both to make the best ,only one to make the best is sufficient town but two child no time 
14. Not to prepare mentally strong and body
15. Siblings or companions oru reality 
16. Oru siblings seiya vediyatha parents panuraga
17. Support in emotions and financial
18. 





Why not 
1. Not to all stress first child 
2. Pressure to super mom,super child ,
3. Fear
4. Thani poruppu 
5. Uruga oru child ,so they joy the modern like cinemas ( cinema ka onnu child pothum)
6. I must enjoy the life without any struggle or less struggle
7. Personal time more spending
8. Both are working na income additional thaan aana oru car ,oru home na it's not good 
9. Oru education nu ku savings , hospital ku and during pregnancy also 
10. Compare to first baby cost it's increased in second child
11. Equal la panumothu expenses double ⏫



இழத்தலில் உள்ள மகிழ்ச்சி 

Sole consumer wanted in the market,if u r a sole ,u r the prey in the consumer Market,team ma irutha thinking , observe varum
