[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

Skip to content
thecleverprogrammer
HOME
ALL ARTICLES
RECOMMENDED COURSES

Group Anagrams using Python
Aman KharwalAMAN KHARWALMAY 26, 2022MACHINE LEARNING
Anagrams are words formed by rearranging the letters of another word, For example, car and arc, cat and act, etc. Grouping anagrams is one of the popular questions in coding interviews. So if you want to learn how to solve the problem of grouping anagrams, this article is for you. In this article, I will take you through a tutorial on how to group anagrams using Python.

Group Anagrams using Python
Grouping anagrams is one of the popular questions in coding interviews. Here you will be given a list of words, and you have to write an algorithm to group all the words which are anagrams of each other. So below is how you can write a Python function to group anagrams:

1
from collections import defaultdict
2
​
3
def group_anagrams(a):
4
    dfdict = defaultdict(list)
5
    for i in a:
6
        sorted_i = " ".join(sorted(i))
7
        dfdict[sorted_i].append(i)
8
    return dfdict.values()
Now let’s test the function by creating a list of words containing anagrams and some other words:

1
words = ["tea", "eat", "bat", "ate", "arc", "car"]
2
print(group_anagrams(words))
dict_values([['tea', 'eat', 'ate'], ['bat'], ['arc', 'car']])
So this is how you can group anagrams using the Python programming language. It’s valuable to practice coding interviews to improve your programming logic and coding skills. You can practice many more coding interview questions and Python projects from here.

Summary
Grouping anagrams is one of the popular questions in coding interviews. Here you have to write an algorithm to group all the words which are anagrams of each other. I hope you liked this article on grouping anagrams using Python. Feel free to ask valuable questions in the comments section below.

Aman Kharwal
Aman Kharwal
I'm a writer and data scientist on a mission to educate others about the incredible power of data📈.

ARTICLES: 1508
Data Science Projects on Sentiment Analysis of Reviews
PREVIOUS POST
Data Science Projects on Sentiment Analysis of Reviews
NEXT POST
Here’s How to Create a Data Science Project Report
How to Create a Data Science Project Report
Recommended For You
Uncommon Words from Two Sentences using Python
Uncommon Words from Two Sentences using Python
May 10, 2023
Transpose Matrix using Python
Transpose Matrix using Python
May 3, 2023
Buddy Strings using Python
Buddy Strings using Python
April 26, 2023
Binary Search using Python
Binary Search using Python
April 19, 2023
Leave a Reply

FACEBOOK
INSTAGRAM
MEDIUM
LINKEDIN
Copyright © Thecleverprogrammer.com 2023 


