[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

bond and debunture meaning
Why Machine Learning Does Not Have to Be So Hard
by Jason Brownlee on March 28, 2018 in Start Machine Learning
Tweet Tweet  Share
Last Updated on December 30, 2020

Technical topics like mathematics, physics, and even computer science are taught using a bottom-up approach.

This approach involves laying out the topics in an area of study in a logical way with a natural progression in complexity and capability.

The problem is, humans are not robots executing a learning program. We require motivation, excitement, and most importantly, a connection of the topic to tangible results.

Useful skills we use every day like reading, driving, and programming were not learned this way and were in fact learned using an inverted top-down approach. This top-down approach can be used to learn technical subjects directly such as machine learning, which can make you a lot more productive a lot sooner, and be a lot of fun.

In this post, you will discover the concrete difference between the top-down and bottom-up approaches to learning technical material and why this is the approach that practitioners should use to learn machine learning and even related mathematics.

After reading this post, you will know:

The bottom-up approach used in universities to teach technical subjects and the problems with it.
How people learn to read, drive, and program in a top-down manner and how the top-down approach works.
The frame of machine learning and even mathematics using the top-down approach to learning and how to start to make rapid progress as a practitioner.
Let’s get started.

You're Doing it Wrong. Why Machine Learning Does Not Have to Be So Hard
You’re Doing it Wrong. Why Machine Learning Does Not Have to Be So Hard
Photo by popofatticus, some rights reserved.

Overview
This is an important blog post, because I think it can really help to shake you out of the bottom-up, university-style way of learning machine learning.

This post is divided into seven parts; they are:

Bottom-Up Learning
Learning to Read
Learning to Drive
Learning to Code
Top-Down Learning
Learn Machine Learning
Learning Mathematics
Bottom-Up Learning
Take a field of study, such as mathematics.

There is a logical way to lay out the topics in mathematics that build on each other and lead through a natural progression in skills, capability, and understanding.

The problem is, this logical progression might only make sense to those who are already on the other side and can intuit the relationships between the topics.

Most of school is built around this bottom-up natural progression through material. A host of technical and scientific fields of study are taught this way.

Think back to high-school or undergraduate studies and the fundamental fields you may have worked through: examples such as:

Mathematics, as mentioned.
Biology.
Chemistry.
Physics.
Computer Science.
Think about how the material was laid out, week-by-week, semester-by-semester, year-by-year. Bottom-up, logical progression.

The problem is, the logical progression through the material may not be the best way to learn the material in order to be productive.

We are not robots executing a learning program. We are emotional humans that need motivation, interest, attention, encouragement, and results.

You can learn technical subjects from the bottom-up, and a small percentage of people do prefer things this way, but it is not the only way.

Now, if you have completed a technical subject, think back to how to you actually learned it. I bet it was not bottom-up.

Learning to Read
Think back; how did you learn to read?

My son is starting to read. Without thinking too much, here are the general techniques he’s using (really the school and us as parents):

Start by being read to in order to generate interest and show benefits.
Get the alphabet down and making the right sounds.
Memorize the most frequent words, their sounds, and how to spell them.
Learn the “spell-out-the-word” heuristic to deal with unknown words.
Read through books with supervision.
Read through books without supervision.
It is important that he continually knows why reading is important, connected to very tangible things he wants to do, like:

Read captions on TV shows.
Read stories on topics he loves, like Star Wars.
Read signs and menus when we are out and about.
So on…
It is also important that he gets results that he can track and in which he can see improvement.

Larger vocabulary.
Smoother reading style
Books of increasing complexity.
Here’s how he did not learn to read:

Definitions of word types (verbs, nouns, adverbs, etc.)
Rules of grammar.
Rules of punctuation.
Theory of human languages.
Learning to Drive
Do you drive?

It’s cool if you don’t, but most adults do out of necessity. Society and city design is built around personal mobility.

How did you learn to drive?

I remember some written tests and maybe a test on a computer. I have no memory of studying for them, though I very likely did. Here’s what I do remember.

I remember hiring a driving instructor and doing driving lessons. Every single lesson was practical, in the car, practicing the skill I was required to master, driving the vehicle in traffic.

Here’s what I did not study or discuss with my driving instructor:

The history of the automobile.
The theory of combustion engines.
The common mechanical faults in cars.
The electrical system of the car.
The theory of traffic flows.
To this day, I still manage to drive safely without any knowledge on these topics.

In fact, I never expect to learn these topics. I have zero need or interest and they will not help me realize the thing I want and need, which is safe and easy personal mobility.

If the car breaks, I’ll call an expert.

Learning to Code
I started programming without any idea of what coding or software engineering meant.

At home, I messed around with commands in Basic. I messed around with commands in Excel. I modified computer games. And so on. It was fun.

When I started to learn programming and software engineering, it was in university and it was bottom up.

We started with:

Language theory
Data types
Control flow structures
Data structures
etc.
When we did get to write code, it was on the command line and plagued with compiler problems, path problems, and a whole host of problems unrelated to actually learning programming.

I hated programming.

Flash-forward a few years. Somehow, I eventually starting working as a professional software engineer on some complex systems that were valued by their users. I was really good at it and I loved it.

Eventually, I did a course that showed how to create graphical user interfaces. And another that showed how to get computers to talk to each other using socket programming. And another on how to get multiple things to run at the same time using threads.

I connected the boring stuff with the thing I really liked: making software that could solve problems, that others could use. I connected it to something that mattered. It was no longer abstract and esoteric.

At least for me, and many developers like me, they taught it wrong. They really did. And it wasted years of time, effort, and results/outcomes that enthusiastic and time-free students like me could dedicate to something they are truly passionate about.

Top-Down Learning
The bottom-up approach is not just a common way for teaching technical topics; it looks like the only way.

At least until you think about how you actually learn.

The designers of university courses, masters of their subject area, are trying to help. They are laying everything out to give you the logical progression through the material that they think will get you to the skills and capabilities that you require (hopefully).

And as I mentioned, it can work for some people.

It does not work for me, and I expect it does not work for you. In fact, very few programmers I’ve met that are really good at their craft came through computer science programs, or if they did, they learned at home, alone, hacking on side projects.

An alternative is the top-down approach.

Flip the conventional approach on its head.

Don’t start with definitions and theory. Instead, start by connecting the subject with the results you want and show how to get results immediately.
