[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

Kaushik kannan
Storytelling 
Sales and marketing brother and sister as sivaji




1. Textile park 70k crore   13 state 5 GDP states 
2 million jobs -job designer ku demand varumunu thonanum,How we grow ourselves from that ,skill develop panikalam ethula iruthu aayaram road theriyanum connecting the dots.

2. Disturbuers vs jio Mart protesting in road and reliance entry into cardiac medicine (netmeds) with affordable cost as jio (after than jio increased 😏) and unethical ways but no business ethics vs business law, pitching na enna my product my price,brand war probelm to the distributor and 15 la 1% varlam and undersell neriya aagum and dealers, wholesalers, retails ethuellam volume game,predicator price and late entry na first price and profit bleeding thaan like jio 
3. Netmeds epharm like registration in delivery partner ra paniirukkaga 
4. Google fees and fine
5. White goods A/c air compressor import full 30% of cost of total ac cost compressor manufacturer in India many investment come 
6. Epadi trade deficits decrease aachu and what ,import increase aachu export low aachu befor COVID aana epo rendum orey line la pooguthu import decrease and export decrease demand maybe decrease aagiirukkalam.CEA  margin of safety irukutum.
7. Domnio effect h
8. Ellaathaiyun secondary source ya vachiko not as primary and search and research with u apothaan bond nallairukkum avankum nammakum
9. Loyal customer customer retained venum and new customer also venum SMS anupulam athum spam or not spam potama, hygiene and safety important 
10. Ads revenue la Google mattum illa Twitter ,tiktok ,sharecaht, pinterest,fb,super encourage with customer social media is for engagement not for its sales understand.
11. Dude with shine,
12. Consumer behaviour insta and twitter nalla effect use pannulam,sunfeast milk biscuits Vijaya and dark fantasy in serials and movie and ppl graving that what influence do, objectives pannuvaluma? Thalpaakattu briyani with Irfan views ,tell stories and use ri8 influencer and abode spark spot use.
13. eCommerce business and digital marketing la onna katukutu ,insta building pannulam , testimonial panni
14. LinkedIn profile naala irukunlam
15. Reliance with future group
16. First 2 hrs freeyantharalam hotel la
17. Chatbot la nalla irukkum oruthavana vachi 10k kudutu vachiirukurathu code la finsihing all meeting and appointment
18. Digital marketing automated aagalum
19. Content writing (Vera copy writing), strategy makeing,high demand creative high demand high paying jobs
20.  



