[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 



TAKING AN OBJECTIVE,FACTS BASED APPROACH
the first step in answering any hard business question is to take an objective ,facts based approach.
Fav book
MY YEARS WITH GENERAL MOTORS BY ALFRED P.SLOAN Jr 
It shows the how +ve ,rational information focused leadership can lead to extraordinary success.

He regular personal visits to the company's technical facilities.He constantly gathered information from GM'S dealer hand he cultivated close , productive relationship with them
This is called Find finding tips
An infrastructure that provided aacurate information led to a responsive organization that other carmakers didn't come close to matching for decades. This infrastructure,what i call a company's nervous system helped the GM MOTORS dominate carmaking .

IF YOU WANT TO RUN A WORLD CLASS COMPANY TODAY, YOU HAVE TO TRACK FAR MORE AND DO IT FAR FASTER.

manufacturer will differentiate themselves from one another by sum of how intelligently they use customer feedback to improve their products and services,how quickly they can improve their production processes,how cleverly they market their products and how efficiently they mange distribution and their inventories.


In bank data about the customer relationship and credit analysis are at the heart of the business.


Information work is "the transformation of information by human Brains of computer program

"When I sit down with developers to review product specifications or with Microsoft products divisions to review their financial performance,we work through the difficult issues .
We discuss feature trade offs vs time to market , marketing spend vs revenue,head count vs return and so on.
Through human intelligence and collaboration,we transform static sales , customer customer and demographic dat into Design of product or a program.

Information work is thinking work.

When thinking and collaboration are significantly assisted by computer technology,you have a DNS

It contains act,react ,and adapt

Without facts (insights) it's impossible to put a sound policy into effect
If you have a

























