[[Keep/Colour/PINK]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

CREATIVE:
Creativity can be messy. It needs discipline and management.olerance for failure,
willingness to experiment, psychological safety, highly
collaborative, and nonhierarchical. And research supports the idea that these behaviors translate into better innovative performance.A willingness to experiment requires rigorous
discipline. Psychological safety requires comfort with brutal
candor. Collaboration must be balanced with a individual
accountability. And flatness requires strong leadership.
Innovative cultures are paradoxical. Unless the tensions
created by this paradox are carefully managed, attempts to
create an innovative culture will fail.
1.Tolerance for Failure
but No Tolerance for
Incompetence:GIVEN THAT INNOVATION involves the exploration of
uncertain and unknown terrain, itis not surprising that a tolerance for failure is an important characteristic of innovative
cultures.The truth is that a tolerance for failure requires having
extremely competent people.Creating a culture that simultaneously values learning
through failure and outstanding performance is difficult
in organizations with a history of neither. A good startis
for senior leadership to articulate clearly the difference
between productive and unproductive failures: Productive
failures yield valuable information relative to their cost. A
failure should be celebrated only if it results in learning.. In some cases, people can be
retrained to develop new competences. Butthat’s not always
possible when really specialized skills (say, a PhD in applied
math) are needed to do a job. Keeping people who have been
rendered obsolete may be compassionate, butit’s dangerous
for the organization.
2.Willingness to Experiment but Highly Disciplined/\ORGANIZATIONS THAT EMBRACE experimentation are
comfortable with uncertainty and ambiguity.A willingness to experiment,though, does not mean
working like some third-rate abstract painter who randomly
throws paint at a canvas. Without discipline, almost anything can be justified as an experiment. Discipline-oriented
cultures select experiments carefully on the basis oftheir
potential learning value, and they design them rigorously
to yield as much information as possible relative to the
costs.Experimentation is centralto Flagship’s exploration
process because itis how ideas are culled, reformulated, and
evolved.The philosophy is to learn
what you have gotten wrong early and then move quickly in
more-promising directionsDisciplined experimentation is a balancing act. As a
leader, you wantto encourage people to entertain “unreasonable ideas” and give them time to formulate their
hypotheses.
3.
Psychologically
Safebut
BrutallyCandid/\. Criticism is sharp. People are expected
to be able to defend their proposals with data or logic.In fact, I would
argue that providing and accepting frank criticism is one of
the hallmarks of respect. Accepting a devastating critique
of your idea is possible only if you respectthe opinion ofthe
person providing thatfeedback.They must be willing (and able)to constructively critique
others’ ideas without being abrasive. One way to encourage
this type of culture is for them to demand criticism oftheir
own ideas and proposals.consider itthe duty of anyone who sees a flaw
in this plan notto hesitate to say so. I have no sympathy with
anyone, whatever his station, who will not brook criticism.
We are here to getthe best possible results.
4.Collaboration
butwithIndividual
Accountability/\Buttoo often, collaboration gets confused with consensus. And consensus is poison for rapid decision making and
navigating the complex problems associated with transformational innovation. Ultimately, someone has to make a
decision and be accountable for it.Accountability and collaboration can be complementary,
and accountability can drive collaboration.Leaders can encourage accountability by publicly holding
themselves accountable, even when that creates personal
risk.
5.5.
FlatbutStrong
Leadership/\decision making is decentralized and
closer to the sources of relevantinformation.the balance between flatness and strong
leadership requires a deft hand by management. Flatness
does not mean that senior leaders distance themselves from
operational details or projects. In fact, flatness allows leaders
to be closer to the action.First, I flattened the organization. I had to reduce the
distance between me and the people making decision.Ifthere is a problem, I wantto know directly
from the person involved, nottheir boss.”Getting the balance right between flatness and strong
leadership is hard on top management and on employees
throughout the organization.teve Jobs
was a great example of a leader with this capacity. He laid
out strong visions for Apple while being maniacally focused
on technical and design issues. For employees, flatness
requires them to develop their own strong leadership
capacities and be comfortable with taking action and being
accountable for their decisions.

All cultural changes are difficult. Organizational cultures
are like social contracts specifying the rules of membership.Unbridled, a tolerance for failure
can encourage slack thinking and excuse making, but too
much intolerance for incompetence can create fear of risk
taking. 

