[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

Suppose that the data mining task is to cluster points (with (x, y) representing location)
into three clusters, where the points are
A1(2,10),A2(2,5),A3(8,4),B1(5,8),B2(7,5),B3(6,4),C1(1,2),C2(4,9).
The distance function is Euclidean distance. Suppose initially we assign A1, B1, and C1
as the center of each cluster, respectively. Use the k-means algorithm to show only
(a) The three cluster centers after the first round of execution.
(b) The final three clusters.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
10.3 Use an example to show why the k-means algorithm may not find the global optimum,
that is, optimizing the within-cluster variation.

--------------------------------------------------
10.4 For the k-means algorithm, it is interesting to note that by choosing the initial cluster
centers carefully, we may be able to not only speed up the algorithm’s convergence, but
also guarantee the quality of the final clustering. The k-means++ algorithm is a variant of k-means, which chooses the initial centers as follows. First, it selects one center
uniformly at random from the objects in the data set. Iteratively, for each object p other
than the chosen center, it chooses an object as the new center. This object is chosen at
random with probability proportional to dist(p)
2
, where dist(p) is the distance from p
to the closest center that has already been chosen. The iteration continues until k centers
are selected.

Explain why this method will not only speed up the convergence of the k-means
algorithm, but also guarantee the quality of the final clustering results.
