[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

1. (easy to demand) race la  nalla horse sa irukkanumWhere is the business u go business is business 
2. Long Attention span irukkuanum endless test match
3. Discipline thaan 
4. Rationality thaan ennaiya vaalakum ( inquire mind and logically driven )
5. Continuous spontaneous and spot learning and ready to reading and searching 
6. Thinking the richer is richer and calculate risk
7. Not only honour or nermaimattum potathu 
8. What is ur goal first first finish that illana athuku oru aalu potu paaru
9. Love ur profession not to impress others
10. Reading is musta and learning is always 
11. Appropriate the journey the goal venum so process la irukkanum
12. Patience is must and survival 
13. If ur goal is large the process is simple and easy
14. History is must and learn it 
15. Signal la paaru and not noise
16. Invert and invert
17. Be ur own boss
18. Routine irukkum responsible la irukkanum ( regular ra )
19. Discipline investing
20. Path is unique and must 
21. Take action today
22. Health must( weight)
23. Always surprised by people
24. Time is count it 
25.  Consistent, rate of compounding,long runway
26. 50% save from ur income
27. Habit , routine, discipline, independent (freedom)
28. No cinema and no entertainment and 
29. Stock
30. Nalla business and nalla reputation company ya irukkanum
31. Diversification (oru level ku)
32. no day trading Philip career (பில் கரியர்)
33. Identify the winners stock
34. Profit na vaai,loss na sell
35. Complete balance sheeta analysis Anand tha sonnalum illa i am a analysis pannaum no soombal(atleast atha company pathi 3 page write pannum after analysing)
36. Why this company buy (if sudden loss ur business u should buy  example itc)
37. PE ratio additional tools thaan it's also a company only the debt and profit and money speak
38. Pick one strategy value investing(0ld school strategy) or growth investing(follow the trend ethu) i am value investing
39. Company, economic, country's
40. Next 10 years 
41. Product eppadi iruku analysis Pannu(shop market) any cap it's only products
42. Be kind ur selves its okay unnaya nee kela paagatha self esteem and self confidence(middle point)
43. Money is only tools and it makes ur comfort and not happiness
44. Be trying and do some mistake
45. Competent illathatha paakatha
46. No retirement
47. Business pannurathu and self employment and happy and sad and worse we have our own masters
48. Ambiguous and it's be a unreachable tiny and small and large and it's going only
49. Change is constant 
50. Hypocrisy white line avoid it 
51. if mistake or loss made okay its accept it and learn from it
52. Crorepati is easy and follow the money and multiple income stream venum (interest, royalty, dividend)
53. Keep simple it (Warren buffet )income ma paakanum 
54. Work ethics important
55. No debt (short term only)
56. Jealous lover is money atha paaru
57. Work the money
58. Mentor mukiyam (duplicate pannuga)
59. 10 crore target vachathaan atleast 4 cr paakalam
60. Incentive and people misjudgement (insurance is give rich to middle and lower class)
61. I am believe in large diversification and some its good but its not beat the index 
62. Lesser expensive is best for u and company always
63. See the opportunity always
64. Differentiation the presentation of others(unique), customer will gulity of பேரம் பேசும் போது that like the customer treated 
65. Problem solver ra iru
66. 100 percent committed that ur works and words and product 
67. Utilize the energy and resources of near by u
68. Be persistent 
69. Which is comfort and which is cheap and which is value
70. Cars are liability and buy second hand best car
71. Buffet friend ku Omaha la cheap va hotel la vagi aana avanga wall street la costly buying but buffet help is so expensive advice 
72. Leverage is knife without hand f and o
73. Be wealthy (tata)
74. Be a tata family and buffet his home is one or two rooms only(buying assets and aggressively investing it and that is mindset) don't borrow money for spent and don't spend in car mostly and its just a car investlike asset and 
75. Be frugally and money for the future 
76. U known is very small and ur unknown is all 
77. Newton shoulders
78. Stoicism 




