[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

The first step towards a successful job search after graduation is to understand your career. Do a self-evaluation to determine where you fit. That way, you can always apply for the right jobs. Your chances of securing them also increase.

Unfortunately, most fresh college graduates don’t know how to create resumes. They write one piece and keep sending the same copy to different companies. Eventually, they spend several years without securing employment opportunities. You become frustrated when you are the one who is doing the wrong thing.

The secret is to custom-make a resume and ensure it reflects the job you are applying for.

College education provides broad knowledge in a chosen subject, while your career requires deep-dive expertise of a specific subject. 

While the importance of continuous learning and upskilling may sound like a no-brainer, the depth and significance of such realization does not dawn upon candidates until 4 to 5 years into their career. In most cases, many people become complacent and their career growth reaches stagnation

No college can provide this deep-dive expertise to students. As a rule of thumb, new college graduates need to understand that learning is a continuous process throughout their careers.
Corporates don’t choose a fresher over an experienced candidate, just by the virtue of the former’s masters degree, despite the latter not having one. Experience carries higher weightage 

 Corporates don’t choose a fresher over an experienced candidate, just by the virtue of the former’s masters degree, despite the latter not having one
Do a feasibility on whether the work they perform at a company can invariably be replaced by Artificial Intelligence (AI) application or automation in the near future. They need to Instil a flexible mind-set that they can supplement their incomes with multiple part-time jobs or freelance opportunities than just one full-time work position

Find out what their core super-skills are because it is these skills that will empower their career growth in the age of automation. More insights on the significance and definition of super-skills can be found

Instil the attitude of continuous learning. This would imply that students need to know the difference between a broad degree and specialized subject expertise. More insights on degree vs. subject expertise can be found
