[[Keep/Colour/TEAL]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

Power and Self-Interest
of efficient systems is that the most
efficient player inevitably becomes
the most powerful one. A superefficient dominant model elevates the risk of catastrophic failure. More
than 80% of all almonds are now grown in California—so one extreme local weather
event or one pernicious virus could destroy most of the world’s production.
Toward Resilience: Resilience is the ability to recover from difficulties—to spring back into shape
after a shock. To curb efficiency creep and foster
resilience, organizations can:
Limit scale.
Introduce friction. In our quest to
make our systems more efficient, we
have driven out all friction. It is as if we
have tried to create a perfectly clean
room, eradicating all the microbes
there in. we
should inject productive friction at the
right times and in the right places to
build up the system’s resilience.But long-term capital is
far more helpful to a company trying
to create and deploy a long-term
strategy than short-term capital is. If
you give me $100 but say that you can
change how it is to be used with 24
hours’ notice, that money isn’t nearly
as valuable to me as if you said I can
use it as I want for 10 years. If Warren
Buffett’s desired holding period for
stock is, as he jokes, “forever,” while
the quantitative arbitrage hedge fund
Renaissance Technologies holds
investments only for milliseconds,
Buffett’s capital is more valuable than
that of Renaissance.
Teach for resilience. Management
education focuses on the singleminded pursuit of efficiency—and
trains students in analytic techniques
that deploy short-term proxies for
measuring that quality. As a result,
graduates head into the world to
build (inadvertently, I believe) highly efficient businesses that largely
lack resilience.
Management deans, professors,
and students would undoubtedly
beg to differ. But the curricula show
otherwise. Finance teaches the pursuit of efficient financial structures.
Efficient cost management is the goal
of management accounting. Human
resources teaches efficient staffing.
Marketing is about the efficient
targeting of and selling to segments.
Operations management is about
increasing plants’ efficiency. The
overarching goal is the maximization
of shareholder value's. Our
system is much more vulnerable and
much less fair than we like to think.
That needs to change

