[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

first spilt the data,second train the data by model, third predict or fit the test data fourth is accuracy of test data crt?
if i give the new data of not train and test data as new data is accuracy is low comapre to test data accuracy.

Coronary artery disease (CAD):,heart failure ,Arrhythmia  a proper diagnosis and assessment of the specific type of heart disease requires more comprehensive and detailed medical testing and evaluation.

Resting electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) measures the electrical activity of the heart while at rest. In the context of the heart disease dataset, the restecg attribute indicates the results of the resting ECG.

A value of 0 means normal ECG results, a value of 1 means having ST-T wave abnormality (T wave inversions and/or ST elevation or depression of > 0.05 mV), and a value of 2 means having left ventricular hypertrophy (an enlarged left ventricle of the heart).

If the presence of ST-T wave abnormality is observed, it may indicate the possibility of an underlying heart condition such as coronary artery disease, heart attack, or cardiac ischemia. However, further medical examination and testing are required to confirm the diagnosis

oldpeak: ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest.
slope: the slope of the peak exercise ST segment (0: downsloping; 1: flat; 2: upsloping).
ca: number of major vessels (0-3) colored by fluoroscopy.
thal: a blood disorder called thalassemia (1 = normal; 2 = fixed defect; 3 = reversible defect).
