[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

- [ ] "Quantitative Aptitude for Competitive Examinations" by R.S. Aggarwal: This is a comprehensive book that covers all the important topics in quantitative aptitude, including arithmetic, algebra, geometry, and data interpretation. Whole RS Aggarwal concept and question from each topics are explained in “Quantitative Aptitude Test Prep Quantitative Aptitude & DI for Placements 2023: Tips & Trick” in Udemy course by Priya Singh.
- [ ] "A Modern Approach to Verbal and Non-Verbal Reasoning" by R.S. Aggarwal: This book covers a wide range of topics in reasoning, including logical reasoning, analytical reasoning, and non-verbal reasoning.
- [ ] "Objective General English" by S.P. Bakshi: This book covers all the important topics in English grammar, including vocabulary, comprehension, and writing.
- [ ] "How to Prepare for Quantitative Aptitude for CAT" by Arun Sharma: This book is specifically designed for students preparing for the CAT (Common Admission Test) and covers all the important topics in quantitative aptitude.
- [ ] "Fast Track Objective Arithmetic" by Rajesh Verma: This is a popular book for students preparing for competitive exams, including banking and management entrance exam
- [ ] Quantitative Aptitude for Competitive Examinations" by R.S. Aggarwal: This book is a popular resource for practicing quantitative aptitude questions.
- [ ] "A Modern Approach to Verbal and Non-Verbal Reasoning" by R.S. Aggarwal: This book is a comprehensive resource for practicing reasoning questions.
- [ ] Quantitative Aptitude Test Prep Quantitative Aptitude & DI for Placements 2023: Tips & Trick: One such resource, which I find very relevant, is the Udemy course by Priya Singh, who cracked GATE, AIMCAT, Elitmus paper and helped 3K+ student in their preparation. "Quantitative Aptitude Test Prep Quantitative Aptitude & DI for Placements 2023: Tips & Trick". This course is designed to help students learn tips and tricks to solve aptitude question in less time and secure well in it.
- [ ] IndiaBIX: IndiaBIX is a popular website for practicing aptitude tests. It offers a wide range of practice questions, mock tests, and tips for improving your performance.
- [ ] Khan Academy: Khan Academy is a free online resource that offers video lessons and practice questions on a wide range of subjects, including math and reasoning.
- [ ] PrepInsta: PrepInsta is a website that offers mock tests, study materials, and interview preparation resources for students preparing for various aptitude tests.
- [ ] Indiabix - My personal favourite. I sat for the campus placements of Wipro and Capgemini. Wipro included AMCAT test pattern. And believe me 20 out of 25 questions in quants were what I already did in Indiabix! Capgemini follows COCUBES. Here more than 50% section of both quants and logical were from Indiabix!
- [ ] m4maths - Another great website that provides separate questions for every company you are going for!
- [ ] Lofoya - Similar to Indiabix.
- [ ] Freshersworld - One of the most trusted websites for every Btech student ;) Actually it's a very awesome website that has a library of more than enough questions on any topic, but the only problem is the flood of typo errors in the answers they provide.
- [ ] 1.Java,Python(Try to solve problems from competitive coding web sites)
- [ ] 2.Any one rdbms technology with very good RDBMS concept.
- [ ] 3.One No-Sql technolgy like MONGODB- university.mongodb.com - Here you can pursue short mongodb courses
- [ ] 4. Sound Data Structure and Algorithm concepts-Infact if you study only this very well, you will not need any other things at all.
- [ ] 5. Operating System Concept with good knowledge in Linux platform(commands and bit shell progtamming)
- [ ] 6.Any advance web technolgy framework like Spring and any ORM framework like Hibernate or iBatis.
- [ ] 7.Bit of Big Data concepts.Hadoop(MapReduce and HDFS).It is not necessary.But overview of concept will help
- [ ] But most important is 1,2 and 4. These three can place you in any company.
