[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Label/Gateradrds]]

This will be probably the last post before I join IISc. I would like to add up on what all to take care during this rank deciding phase of the preparation.

I agree that every phase of preparation can contribute to a top rank. But the crucial time period in which new rankers gets added to the race is during the months of June-July-August. So there is no need of worry if you are starting right now. I started my preparation during the first week of August. So no time till August is late for starting the gate preparation. Many might argue that toppers will prepare from February. No, that point is completely wrong. In fact many toppers are college going students who started in July-Aug phase of the year. So first of all set the 6month plan in your mind, that you are going to crack it. Follow a daily, weekly, monthly goal based approach in which you are going to split the syllabus and related work, to little tasks and trying to do a set of tasks daily. Track your progress by the help of some tools.

Some tools which I can recommend is:

Notion

Keepnotes by Google

Try to increase the checkboxes in tasks list daily. Don't panic if you can't fulfill the list of tasks. Suppose you missed revising Linear Algebra. Then do one thing. Schedule revision of Linear Algebra to the first slot of study in morning. By this approach you can slowly notice that the number of backlogs are getting reduced and you are unconsciously reducing the laziness of completing something difficult.

Another question which I get the most is, how can I prepare along with college or job? If you have some serious aspirations of cracking the exam, you will definitely push your limits to achieve the daily progress. Say you have your college or job from 9-5. What I did was to start the preparation from 5:30 to 4am. It will not be easy. But according to your convinience try to use the day slots in which you are free and some slots after evening. Try to talk the progress to someone who cares about you, on a weekly basis. Because still in India, parents supports a lot more than anyone does. So try to share your progress in a non technical manner.

Another question that I get is, Can I crack gate without coaching? Answer is definitely yes. I joined for a coaching in August. But some subjects didn't reach my expectations. Then I have referred some YouTube playlists to clear my doubt. Yes, human mind doesn't fit to a particular coaching, but in fact you can use the internet to get doubts resolved. If you can afford a coaching, they can provide those content in a structured manner. If you can do that yourself, then definitely follow the free resources.

I will share some playlists and resources which I think is helpful:

EM, DM - GOclasses

C - Amit Khurana sir

DS - Vishwadeep sir

Algorithms - Reddy sir or Gatehub or Khaleel sir

TOC - Gatehub or Mallesham sir

CD - Mallesham sir or Amit Khurana (try after basics)

DBMS - Amit sir

DLD - Amit sir

COA - Vishwadeep sir

OS - Vishwadeep sir

CN - Amit Khurana sir

Aptitude - Christys classes (long) or Amulya ratan (short)

For cracked resources search up on the internet.

For doubts, refer lectures once more or standard resources like textbooks, university ppts of premier institutions like Stanford, MIT, or IISc, IITB etc. Just read the specific portion in which you have doubts.

For PYQs refer GO-PDFs in GitHub. I think buying books for that is a genuine waste of time because the exam itself is computer based.

Try to write your own notes. I followed topper's notes but the major problem is, we can't understand some portions in the manner written on notes, while revising. Also due to that there is higher probability to forget those concepts. So even if the notes you make are concise (to the point), try to write on your own. Else the real struggle is waiting for you.

Try to complete the syllabus by November end or December mid. I completed by Jan start. But that approach is risky. Don't waste time on miscellaneous things like college events, politics, social media, coaching tg groups etc. They are meant to make you the next dropper. So stay away from distractions. Manage relationships very carefully during this period. Because the mental trauma which some relationships provide can ruin your entire preparation.

Try to get some test series by Dec or Jan. Ask some toppers for which ones to choose. Try to give atleast 10-15 Full length tests. It can boost your confidence. Don't get worried on how much marks you get. I got 37 marks on a FLT during Jan mid. I used to score around 33-68 in tests with an avg of about 45. I ended up scoring 70+. So the main point is, try to analyse the things, always try to consume things which only make sense to you. Questions are meant to be framed in a tricky manner so they can eliminate fragile minded people. So by doing PYQs many times and attending, analysing sufficient number of tests, you can reduce the probability of getting confused in real gate exam.

Try to revise a subject per day. Try to complete the revision of entire gate CSE within 2-3 weeks continue it in cycles.

Whatever your background maybe, it has no weightage in exams. If you are struggling now, that means you have done something towards the end goal. External factors are meant to demotivate you every single hour of your life, but those who can find a way out can succeed in this exam. This is not the greatest exam in the world, but it definitely is a door to many new opportunities.

Things I have mentioned above may or may not make sense to you based on in which phase of life you are rn. But definitely frame out a unique way of doing things but always align to the goal of completing a topic per day.

Use YouTube very carefully. Many channels are there to trap you into their courses. They will create a FOMO and people will run behind them. So try to analyse things based on your intellect and whether if it makes sense to you.

Some points to take care about syllabus completion, revision and rest series:

Short notes or Long notes for revision?

Initially use long notes for revisions. After 2-3 cycles, try to highlight points or make short notes. Revise them. Initially you may take like 3-4 hrs for understanding some difficult subjects but eventually it will go down to 1-1.5hr. Daily try to finish a subject in this manner. Split EM, DM into sub-subjects and do 1-2 of these.

Strategy for last 2 months?

In last two months, main focus needs to shift from lecture consumption to revisions and PYQs. Don't get distracted by marathons or speed track courses. Don't solve workbooks, quizzes during this period. Focus on revising 1 subject in morning or evening, giving a test in alternate days (choose timings 9:30-12:30 one day, 2:30-5:30 the third day). Revise rigorously from short notes in Jan month. It will strengthen your recalling ability while solving problems. Jan is the month where toppers will utilise the month to the maximum extend. Don't waste any time on lectures or yt. Just do test series and revise concepts. Do PYQs on weak portions.

Should I take subject wise or topic wise tests?

I won't recommend any subject wise or topic wise tests at this point of time. If you have sufficient time then feel free to do those.

Test series?

Paid test series: Gateoverflow, Gate@zeal, Made easy,

Free: Try giving PYQs as a test (one previous year's paper a day) on Gateoverflow. But I will always recommend to take a test series. One will be sufficient.

Workbooks?

PYQs are the best source to practice your concept strength. Like Amit sir says, it is like a mirror. It reveals the weakpoints. The more you become strong at it, the better you will become at acing the final exam. Try for a 60-70% hitrate. Workbooks are highly not recommended.

Syllabus coverage?

Try to complete 3-4 easy-moderate subjects, 2-3 moderate-hard subjects every month. Do this with revision of old subjects. For maths, EM: 10-15days, DM: 20-30 days.

If you feel demotivated, think of the opportunities and after life of cracking the exam. You will be in a real safezone after cracking the exam. For toppers, struggle is meant to be there (Watch any topper interview). For others, maybe they will try to avoid the struggles. Believe me, the risk to reward ratio is very high as the opportunities which you get after cracking the exam is huge. I'm not selling my minutes over Topmate, so feel free to ask doubts which you have. Thank you, all the very best
