[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Label/Gateradrds]]

Complete the syllabus by Aug 2025. Do practice in the rest of the time. Take 1-2 months for maths. 2 subjects per month. 1 subject in 20-25 days if it is difficult. So slowly but make full notes. Do topic wise and subject wise tests as you have time. Go in a slow but steady manner. Study daily.

Try to exercise 30mins a day when you get time. Try walking or something without equipment. Doing exercise is essential because of risks of backpain and fat associated diseases.

Try to complete 3-4 easy-moderate subjects, 2-3 moderate-hard subjects every month. Do this with revision of old subjects. For maths, EM: 10-15days, DM: 20-30 days. If you can't achieve this, take few more days for each subject. But strictly not more than 10-15days for subjects except maths.



Overthinking kills. Always follow single resource for a subject. Don't overthink about selection. Always think of a backup. In my case that was IIITB because cutoffs were less.

Demotivation is common in this journey. To stay motivated, track daily, weekly and monthly progress. You can get an idea of how much ahead you are in the race. Don't watch demotivational videos or interact with peers who lack motivation. Share progress with someone who is a wellwisher.


 I prepared along with college. I think even if you are having job, you can dedicate like 7pm-12am atleast for gate. If you can dedicate more then it's better. Initially grasping things take time. So slowly do the subjects with proper revision. If you are just starting then have a plan to write GATE 25 as a practice test to analyse your learning and then prepare for GATE 26. But if you are already comfortable with 4-5 subjects then try to pull some time at office. I have heard from toppers who had jobs, like they used to revise some subjects in office time (free times). After that they take some 2-4hrs of lectures and prepare notes, then practice some hours while at home. You can follow the same. If you could add some more details about timings and nature of job I can further help in managing those




Try to highlight points or make short notes. Revise them. Initially you may take like 3-4 hrs for understanding some difficult subjects but eventually it will go down to 1-1.5hr. Daily try to finish a subject in this manner. Split EM, DM into sub-subjects and do 1-2 of these.

In last two months, main focus needs to shift from lecture consumption to revisions and PYQs. Don't get distracted by marathons or speed track courses. Don't solve workbooks, quizzes during this period. Focus on revising 1 subject in morning or evening, giving a test in alternate days (choose timings 9:30-12:30 one day, 2:30-5:30 the third day). Revise rigorously from short notes in Jan month. It will strengthen your recalling ability while solving problems.

I won't recommend any subject wise or topic wise tests at this point of time. If you have sufficient time then feel free to take one per alternate day.

Paid test series: Gateoverflow, Gate@zeal, Made easy Free: Try giving PYQs as a test (one year's paper a day). But will always recommend to take a test series.


I avoided topic wise tests. You can't give for all topics unless you are a dropper. For resources, nowadays every test series contains topic wise tests. So pick one of your choice. Gateoverflow, Gate@zeal have good quality tests. If you are looking for free ones, I will recommend to solve the PYQs topicwise in a time frame

Yeah still the answer is same. I don't know any free resources for that. But in most test series, they generally have subject wise tests.


Math is very vast and needs time. So focus on solving math part well. Many theorms, concepts and many possible variations. Also only 1 paper has happened so far. So analyse the PYQs and understand the pattern. Still I will stress on extensive practice of Math part from standard books. 


I can't study continuously for even 30mins even if it is in Jan month. I tend to take many breaks. Don't worry, continue with the same pace. But one subject at a time. Mixing up two can impact you badly. Watch lectures on 2x. That will help.



I relied completely on PYQs. I tried solving minimum 30-40 PYQs per day in a cyclic manner. So by syllabus completion I would finish 3-4 rounds. No, rely primarily on PYQs, workbooks are mostly irrelevant to gate pattern and quality of questions are not reliable. So I can't recommend any. Use PYQs + Test series questions as a source for practice.
