[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Label/Gateradrds]]


Actually you need to revise, solve the PYQs atleast 5 times before you are going to the exam hall (maybe I did that).  I revised short notes more than 8times in Jan alone. PYQs overall 6-7times. So basically what matters is completing the syllabus, doing as much cycles of trying to retain what you have learnt via PYQs and revisions. You can use short notes, prepare them after syllabus completion. But these maybe generic to you. But what really changed me from expecting under 3000 to getting under 200 is the Jan month efforts. Solved around 10-15 mocks, practiced the difficult PYQs multiple times (even though some are still unknown to me, LoL), revising gate CSE in 7days with short notes (dedicating morning slot for 1-2-3 sub revisions) etc. So the Jan month and attitude (chillness) in exam hall can really fetch you the top rank. Studying 24x7 doesn't guarantee that but proper planning and last moment attitude can really help. I can't still believe how I did it. Because my concepts were not that strong (maybe it is my perception due to less time allocated like 10-15max for harder subjects, less for easier ones - majorly due to college) but still believing in the fact that practicing a lot blindly can get you that flow of solving similar pattern questions. Human mind tends to identify patterns much faster if we already have seen the similar pattern somewhere more than once, that too recently. So my point is practicing all possible PYQs and doing them multiple times (one round must be on Dec-Jan for retention in memory) is the key to cracking the exam. I know many people who are much experts in subjects than me, but what really matters is how smartly you can solve the questions by identifying known patterns. So practicing many (5-6-7+) times and avoiding shitty workbooks, relying completely on PYQs + quality tests series questions will make you the next topper. I know it's lengthy but try to absorb what I told and work in a attitude that you are noob to that. So you won't do silly mistakes on easy questions. Also try to avoid the distractions in YT.


Valid question!

Just a point I wanted to highlight is depth of the subject is required, along with it the flow of questions solving (speed) should be there for you to effectively find the answer within 3-5mins! I can say like a proper depth + extreme practice will be needed for that. I was assuming that the person has enough depth of knowledge upto the level what PYQs demand. I was highlighting the fact that you have to move on to next, we do not have much time to spend on a single subject (I am assuming you are starting on July-Aug and is a Gate '25 aspirant). Some will go in very depth and will fail to complete syllabus. So just stick to syllabus, learn upto what PYQs demand and move on! 🙌 If you have started earlier, then the depth of knowledge can increase, but I was assuming that he is starting now. But still there is limit to what professors ask. They do not expect you to solve tricky, complicated questions and they need who can apply the learnt concepts in 3min timeframe. So you need to efficiently put in what you have explored in the subject.




Also I can emphasize that if I was thinking like I lack the depth and continue to explore the subject in unexpected depth, then I would be the next dropper. 

People (not you, I'm saying in general) generally don't understand how much depth does they need to explore. Some overestimate like I want to do PhD in that, some underestimate that professor doesn't know to set the question. So both should not be done, you will need a proper depth to what syllabus and PYQs demand, and move on. In othercase, it will make the person the next dropper. I'm saying this because this is the major differentiating factor. Nothing else




Don't over think and try to do something different or extra. Yes, everyone will study the same syllabus and practice the same pyqs but not everyone will replicate the same in the exam hall. Keep on practicing the same pyqs again and again even if they seem redundant. You have no idea how many people including myself have fumbled easy questions and calculations in the exam





Its not about doing different things.

Only skill you need is to identify your weaknesses by mock tests and work on them, then repeat. This might sound simple but is really boring and repetitive, that is what toppers do, they do the boring.

Most people dont even attend/understand basic concepts, and miss out on small details like an assumption in derivation. The thing is to have a very clear fundamental knowledge and knowing how to apply that in solving a problem thats it.

There is not need to solve 100000 questions, questions will not get repeated in GATE, but concepts on which the question was asked will surely be repeated, so analyse PYQs for the concept that GATE asked and not the method or solution.

Revision is very important, any topper would easily revise entire syllabus a minimum of 15 times(using short notes obviously)
