[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Label/Gateradrds]]

I am writing this to tell my journey (from not qualifying GATE to AIR 268).

Before starting anything, I want to tell you something about me. I am not good in physique. I am thin and underweight (since childhood). My teacher used to say, you don't have the body, you have to do good in study. Since childhood, I used to fear a lot. I don't know why I used to fear so much. These fears just made me under-confident.

GATE 2019: -

During final year I was not much knowing about GATE. I only filled the form and gave exam. As expected, I didn’t qualify the exam, got 19 marks.

GATE 2020: -

Some of my friends & I took admission in Made easy, Delhi. On 11th June 2019, when we were going to Delhi, I got informed that my grandmother had expired. I was not able to go home that time, so thought to go back at terahavi. Financial condition was not so good at that time(average condition). One of my uncles (Mama) helped that time. I remember when I was taking money, I was having tears in my eyes. I felt a significant pressure to excel. My batch had been started from June 2nd, but I began attending classes from June 14th. One subject had been completed already. To cover up, we had to do extra classes. Our classes would start at 7–8 am and end at 7–8 pm. I had never attended classes for such extended hours before.

On returning home on terahavi, I was worn out from work and began to experience a mild fever. Nevertheless, I returned to Delhi for my usual classes. Over the next few days, I noticed recurring fever. One day, while getting ready for the classes, I saw small amount of blood in my saliva. I searched on Google to find the possible reason. It showed me cancer, TB. The survival rates for these types of diseases are quite low. This made me to overthink that I was going to die. Fear gripped me. My heartbeat started to accelerate. It was happening first time with me. I panicked, breaking out in a sweat.

I rushed to a nearby medical to get my pulse and blood pressure measured. The first reading was higher than normal, and second was lower than normal. These fluctuating readings were probably due to the electronic machine's low battery. I was not aware of this. I googled for the possible reason to this. It showed me arrhythmia. During B.Tech I had studied once that pacemakers are used for irregular heartbeat. I got tensed that i was going to die. My heart was pounding. I rushed to Safdarjung Hospital. They did some test like ECG, X-Ray and physical information. Heartbeat was 126 at that time. In ECG report there was some abnormality. So they performed Trop-T test. I was not knowing about this test, so I google it. I found that it was related to heart attack. Fortunately test result came negative. I returned back to my hostel after taking injection.

This thought continued in mind. I was not able to sleep. My hands, necks had started to shake. All this was due to anxiety. I was not knowing anything about anxiety. I returned back to my hometown for checkup. Doctor told me you are fine and said “Hamesha Khush Rha Kro". He gave some medicine and told not to stop taking them without consulting. Approx 1 month I was at home. On returning back to Delhi, I found that I was not able to focus on studies, to take any mental load. During this few subjects had completed in class. So I thought to do classes, make class notes and try for next year. I didn't solved question, didn't attempted online test. I got AIR 16537.

GATE 2021:-

I returned back to home in January 2020. When i started my preparation again, same anxiety problem started again. That time lockdown was there. Doctors were not opening their clinic. Due to fear of death, I was not able to sleep. When I used to close the eye for sleep, i got feared that i was going to get heart attack. Heart beat used to be very high. Hands, necks were used to shake due to anxiety. It started in dream that I had cancer and I was going to die. To control this, I started to do execise. It controlled somewhat. In end 2020 when covid cases lowered down and doctor started to open clinic, i consulted them and started to take medicine. I didn't studied whole year. As expected i didn’t qualified the exam

GATE 2022:-

I started preparing for the GATE 2022 exam in April 2021. Due to anxiety, I was only able to study for short periods. To break the monotony and divert my mind, I started doing some household chores like bringing grass for the cows, cutting them using machines, cleaning cow pots, and bathing them (this continued till GATE 2024). In the meantime, my uncle opened a motor parts shop in our village, and I used to take care of it when he was away. I used to study there during that time (continued this till GATE 2024).

This year, I revised all my class notes and made short notes, but didn't solve any questions or take any tests. In the last month leading up to the exam, I started solving questions, making a mistake copy, and attempting tests. Although this helped me improve my test scores, I was making a lot of mistakes and didn't rectify them.

In the final exam, I got AIR 3526. Despite people suggesting that I prepare for non-tech exams, I believed in myself and wanted to crack the GATE exam. I knew that starting from scratch for non-tech exams would take a lot of time and effort, and other people were already ahead of me. Therefore, I continued with my GATE exam preparation.

GATE 2023:-

I started my preparation again in May with a more focused approach. I solved questions, cleared concepts through questions, modified short notes, made a mistake copy and revised it daily. I also solved examples from the standard textbook. My preparation was going well but in August, I had to undergo surgery for a fistula which took more than a month to recover. Due to the pain, I couldn't study during this time and the doctor advised me not to sit for long hours. This happened because of my prolonged sitting hours. After recovering, I resumed my preparation from September and began attempting tests. I attempted more than 200 tests (topicwise + FLT) using test series from Exergic, MadeEasy, and Testbook. My rank used to be under 200, sometimes under 400. I started taking medicine again in November until the GATE exam. Finally, in GATE 2023, I got AIR 926. I was relaxed and preparing for the Interview. I took HPCL (had cleared its exam), NPCIL, and BARC (had cleared its exam) interviews but I was not able to crack any of them. In NPCIL, I got 67 marks in the interview (the cutoff was 72), which made me happy as I was so close to getting selected. After giving the BARC interview on 15th June, I got busy with the construction of my new home and didn't touch books during this time (for the IOCL interview, I prepared for 10 days approx). The construction was finally completed on 13th January 2024.

GATE 2024:-

I have a memory of feeling lost and unsure of what to do after January 13, 2024. I believed that I hadn't studied enough and had forgotten everything, so I didn't think I would pass the exam. This made me very upset and I cried. However, on January 17, a friend told me that he had purchased the Exergic test series. Seeing this, I thought that I should also start practising tests. I immediately purchased the test and started taking it from January 18. During the tests, my rank was usually above 300. In the final exam, I focused on not making any mistakes. I attempted 47 questions. In MCQ/MSQ accuracy was 100% (zero negative marking)(although I did mistake in NAT questions, it didn't cost me negative markings). I was unhappy after exam because I didn't revise my short notes. Direct questions were there from them which I could have done if I had revised them.

But in final result, I got AIR 268, which I was pleased with because it was the result of all the hard work i did for last 3 years.

Throughout my exam preparation journey, I kept a diary where I wrote down my schedule, study hours (not daily), and my negative and positive thoughts. This diary served as a guide and kept me motivated. I was collecting all the pens and rough copies I was using during preparation. At last it totalled 167 pens and 16 bundles of A4 pages (each contained 500 pages)

My Learning:-

1. Never ever believe on google for any medical condition. Consult doctor for that.

2. Don't keep changing the target. Better focus on single target. It may take time in showing the result of your effort.
