[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

1. ==**SLOG OVERS**==  
are a series of overs in white-ball cricket where the batters attempt to score as many runs as possible in a short period of time, usually at the end of an innings.
2. ==**Reassurance**==
the action of removing someone's doubts or fears:,  a statement that removes someone's doubts or fears: உறுதி.
3. ==Solace== -comfort or consolation in a time of distress or sadness:.
4. ==Pity== - the feeling of sorrow and compassion caused by the suffering and misfortunes of others. feel sorrow for the misfortunes of: இரக்கம்
5. ==Piety== - the quality of being religious or reverent:1. கடவுட் பற்று.a belief which is accepted with unthinking conventional reverence:.
6. ==Contempt== - அவமதிப்பு , the feeling that a person or a thing is worthless or beneath consideration:,disrespect, disregard, slighting ,neglect , disparagement.
7. ==Courtesy -== 
the showing of politeness in one's attitude and behavior towards others: , good manners , politeness , civility .
8. ==Procure== - acquire ,get ,find , come by ,secure , bring about m contrive , obtain (something), especially with care or effort:,,,முயன்று பெறு.
9. ==Solidarity== - Unity , unity or agreement of feeling or action, especially among individuals with a common interest; mutual support within a group: ,like mindedness ,accord ,agreement.
10. ==Deceased== -the recently dead person .
11. ==Hold== - clasp , Clutch , grasp, grip , clench , carry ,detain (Hold Up,Hold ,keep).
12. ==Revive== -Restore ,Regain the life , refresh ,reintroduce ,restore,reestablish


