[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] [[Keep/Archived]] 

rules of thumb that should be followed when creating the analysis model in software engineering:

Focus on visible requirements: The analysis model should focus on requirements that are visible within the problem or business domain. The level of abstraction should be relatively high, and the model should avoid getting bogged down in details that try to explain how the system will work.

Add value: Each element of the requirements model should add to an overall understanding of software requirements and provide insight into the information domain, function, and behavior of the system.

Delay nonfunctional models: Infrastructure and other nonfunctional models should be delayed until design. For example, a database may be required, but the classes necessary to implement it, the functions required to access it, and the behavior that will be exhibited as it is used should be considered only after problem domain analysis has been completed.

Minimize coupling: It is important to represent relationships between classes and functions, but if the level of "interconnectedness" is extremely high, efforts should be made to reduce it.

Provide value to all stakeholders: The requirements model should provide value to all stakeholders. Business stakeholders should use the model to validate requirements, designers should use the model as a basis for design, and QA people should use the model to help plan acceptance tests.

Keep it simple: The model should be kept as simple as possible. Additional diagrams should only be added when they add new information, and complex notational forms should only be used when a simple list will not suffice.

FADM VP KISS
