[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

I have thoroughly checked the syllabus and have an idea of GATE, the syllabus is not very difficult for me, I would just need to grind Maths, which I was hoping to start right after placement because I love it.

Don't look at syllabus , try looking at PYQs & see if you can solve them , I made the same mistake of thinking GATE is easy.

Coming to the CAT, I gave it last year, and I came to know I need to work in VARC + English communication, which is, practically gonna take a bit more time.

Are you GEM ?

It's a very tough situation for me to choose between tech roles which is my passion which I do with ease and I am most comfortable in vs company building roles after MBA.

Checkup the startup scene in MBA colleges & engineering, iirc , MBAs , especially in India are rarely into startups & most of them take managerial/consulting roles post MBA (MBB type sh*t).

I have heard that IITs , especially the old ones have pretty good incubators.

I just have 2 parameters on which I need your help -

Early career stability which should help me with setting perspective for my long term goal.

Startup (my long term dream): right now, I have a few ideas around AI, on which I am working rn. Be it IIT or IIM I'd be building a startup in long run, but the question is which would be the best for me? Lately what I figured out was that I can always learn the tech just how I learnt till now but building a company is something which I believe should be learnt in some college or else learn by building one, but again being in top IITs is liking being one and among the best minds of India which could really help

Generally speaking Tech roles are still more stable in the long run than management/consulting roles. Noone teaches you to build a company in any college in India. At max you'd be learning stuff like financial management, man management, etc subjects & that too is based on the choice of stream. Just like you can always learn tech , you can always learn these management subjects to get upto speed.

Being in IIT especially for Masters , is a lot more about research than anything else , yes , you can do the bare minimum by acing the exams in your MTech , but in reality the MTech programme still has a research component to it. It will take you into depth of a subject that you have probably never explored , which might help your startup from a product based perspective. But IITs or IIMs won't outright teach you about company building.

IIM MBAs are like extremely powerful T&P departments where you can network your way in , the difference being while you'd be networking with corporate chaps in IIMs , you'd be networking with research chaps in IITs.

The crux of the problem is both these institutions suffer from lack of purpose , ie. IITs should be doing research but are busy placing students in top firms & same with IIMs that should be indulging in entrepreneurship but is busy placing students in MBBs.

I am also aware that, after few years, depending on my career perspective, I might need to give up programming due to potential managerial roles and responsibilities. But I don't think I am ever gonna quit writing code. Also I was thinking to give GATE just for fun.

Everyone thinks that , but once the work starts piling up , personal aspirations take a backseat.
