[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

Must go through at least 2 iterations of the syllabus with PYQs.
Must give mock tests (I used test series of Zeal, MadeEasy and VisionGate; and free mock tests by AppliedRoots at the end).
Analyse all the wrong questions, make note of mistakes, and revise those concepts again. In VisionGATE, sir discusses almost every test and doubts that we had from it.
If you join VisionGATE, the best thing you will get here are 2 things (apart from RSV Sir’s impeccable guidance of course):
Excellent peer group for discussions. Even in online setup, we student used to connect on Meet everyday to have discussions on the concepts that sir had taught that day, or any other day for that matter, or to discuss solutions to the questions that sir had asked us to solve for the day, or to ask doubts (even silly ones) that we might feel conscious to ask sir. That was the best alternative that one could get to a classroom setup, where peer-to-peer discussion can happen easily. The best part about it was, if someone had come up with a shorter/simpler approach to solve a problem, it was helpful to everyone.
Tutorials for each subject. In this, we dive a little deeper to understand the core of the subject. Sir has a wealth of questions by heart about every subject, every chapter and each of them forces you to apply the concepts, but not just directly. This is incredibly helpful because most of the GATE questions are not tough, but we need to crack the question and apply the logic which is only possible if you have good understanding of how things are working, or why we are doing it.
Make note of your marks, time management strategy, weak topics, and keep an eye on the change in performance. As you give tests, if you are working on your mistakes you should track any improvements. For me sometimes it was in marks, sometimes it was in accuracy or in number of attempted questions, or the type of questions I was not able to solve previously. This was a great confidence booster.
I used to make small post-it notes for tricks or snippets of information which I used to forget or learn during tests. They used to be always next to me on the table so I can quickly refer to them when I used to analyse the tests, or just wanted to revise using *Active recall* (Google it).
Please, please talk to your friends, family and/or teacher/mentor. Motivation can never be high all the time. There will always be times when you feel low, when you want to give up. I know if I had shared my thoughts with sir, he would have helped me overcome it, and I probably would have scored an even better rank.

