[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

he syllabus for the quantitative aptitude section of most campus recruitment or placement drives is quite voluminous but the most important, most repeated and frequently tested topics or concepts are as follows:

Number Systems
Number Series and Sequences (arithmetic progression/AP, and geometric progression/ GP)
Chain rule
Percentages
Ratio and Proportion
Profit, loss and Discount
Time and work
Pipes and cisterns
Word Problems on Ages
Word Problems on Time, Speed and distance
Relative Velocity/Speed and Absolute Velocity/Speed
Word Problems related to train
Word Problems on boats and streams
Simple interest and Compound interest
Problems related to Clocks
Mixture and Allegations
Probability
Permutation and Combinations
Data Sufficiency
Direction Sense
Linear Equations and Quadratic Equations
Simplification and Approximation
Almost 70% of the questions asked in the Quantitative Aptitude Section in the recruitment processes conducted by Global IT majors such as TCS, Cognizant, Wipro, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, Accenture, Capgemini, MindTree, etc are from the topics highlighted in bold above.

Let’s not forget about Data Interpretation. In a lot of competitive exams and recruitment processes, DI or Data Interpretation could be a separate section but it could be part of the quantitative aptitude section as well.

The following Data Interpretation (DI) Question Types are frequently asked and are very important for campus placements:

Line Graphs
Bar Graphs
Pie Charts
Histograms
Missing DI
Tables
Caselets
Columns Charts
Mixed Charts/Graphs
If you are looking to tame the quantitative aptitude section for your campus placements and off campus placement drives then refer to SmartBook by Testbook / S Chand - Best 4000 Smart Practice Questions for Banking - Quantitative Aptitude - This book contains a more than adequate number of chapter or topic questions which are categorized by difficulty level. All the questions in this book have been carefully curated by experts to help bank exam aspirants improve their speed and accuracy drastically.

That’s not all! Every one of the questions in this book comes with a maximum time taken to answer the question, thereby helping aspirants like you get accustomed to the time & exam pressure. To also help you understand where you truly stand and analyze your progress, the Smart Answer Keys lay out a percentage of candidates who attempted each question correctly or skipped it.

Testbook.com - India's No.1 Govt Exam Preparation Site is also a one stop shop for everything related to the recruitment processes in the banking sector, Govt. exams, placements and other competitive exams. We offer topic specific tests, sectional tests, mock tests, previous year question papers, instructor-led live classes, expert video lessons, current affairs round up videos/PDFs and much more to help you crack any recruitment process or competitive exam effortlessly
