[[Keep/Colour/DEFAULT]] 

Free 

C- Amir Khurana YT
DS- Made easy Mega
Algo-Made easy Mega 
TOC - Amit Khurana YT
COA- Vishwadeep YT playlist 
CN - RBR / Amit khurana 
OS- Vishwadeep YT/amit khurana playlist / Made easy Mega link
CD- Made easy Mega 
DBMS- Amit Khuranna YT
Apti- YouTube Playlist 
DLD- Amir khurana YT

YT- youtube

Paid 

Maths - Go classes(though lengthy)if less time then follow Amit Khurana Playlist on YT

DLD- GO
DBMS-GO
CN - Ankit Doyla/GO
Toc- GO
Cd- GO
OS- GO/ Khalil sir /Made easy Mega link 
COA- Go classes 
DS+Algo - Go/Made easy Mega link Reddy sir
Aptitude - Amit Khurana free on YT


Best teacher depends from person to person but if you follow the videos of above faculty either from free/paid sources and then do PYQ and back it up with revision and test series,your preparation will be upto the mark and you don't need to stress during the exams.It all will then depend on D- Day how you perform during those 3 hours. Above mentioned resources will equip you tackle gate 2025 in the best way.

Once you decide the faculties whom you are following,don't deviate from the path after listening to your peers/WhatsApp/telegram groups that this is the best faculty,that is the best faculty,it all depends on students. 
All the above listed names lf faculties are as per my knowledge,if you want you can give time to explore yourself but once you decide then don't deviate. Most students just keep on asking this thing from February to December best faculty,best resources but they don't follow even single faculty fully resulting in disappointment. 

For test series -
Go has the best Quality of questions
Made easy has the best UI related to original gate exam 
Gate @ Zeal has the toughest questions. 
So you can choose test series accordingly.
1 is enough,but if you have time then can take 2. 

Many students keep on solving workbooks,standard questions from books, foreign universities assignments,NPTEL assignments have better questions than these workbooks as most of the workbooks have wrong answers which confuse the students. So choose everything wisely and make this year count. 

Good luck 
